hey this is fresh shell Walker the green
ring an annulus is the area between two
concentric circles the line segment is
tangent to the inner circle and has a
length of eight what is the area of the
ring in this video I'm going to present
five different ways to solve this
problem even if you can get the correct
answer you might want to keep watching
to the end of the video where I give a
brief introduction to visual calculus
can you figure it out give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution well
first adjust the diagram in several ways
we'll rotate the figure so the tangent
line is horizontal next we'll draw the
inner circle radius with the length of B
vertically the radius makes a right
angle because the line is tangent and it
bisects the tangent line so half of the
tangent line will be a length of four
I'll just draw one of the halves as a
equals four finally draw the outer
circle radius with the length of C to be
the hypotenuse of the right triangle the
first way you can solve this problem is
to make convenient numbers if the
problem was on a multiple choice test
you can deduce there is a single
numerical answer that does not depend on
the dimensions of B and C so you can
pick convenient values for B and C we
need a right triangle where one life is
equal to four we might as well use the
three four five right triangle which
means B is equal to 3 and C is equal to
five now we can solve the problem as
follows we can calculate the area of the
outer circle is pi times C squared since
C is equal to five this is equal to 25
pi we then can calculate the area of the
inner circle this will be
pi times b squared since B is equal to 3
this equals 9 pi finally the area of the
green ring is the difference between the
area of the outer circle and the area of
the inner circle so we subtract these
two areas to get the answer of 16 pi if
all you cared about was the correct
answer you could mark this on the exam
and move on but there's a larger
question why does the answer not depend
on the dimensions of B and C in the next
few methods I'll present some general
proofs and also give you some idea of
why this is true so first let's show
that the answer doesn't depend on the
dimensions of the circles it only
depends on the length a of the tangent
segment we can proceed similarly but
we're going to use the Pythagorean
theorem in a right triangle a squared
plus B squared is equal to C squared
which means a squared is equal to C
squared minus B squared now just like in
the previous method we calculate the
area of the outer circle this will be pi
times C squared we then calculate the
area of the inner circle this is pi
times b squared the area of the green
ring will be the difference between the
area of the outer circle and the area of
the inner circle so this will be pi
times c squared minus pi times b squared
and we know that C squared minus B
squared is equal to a squared by the
Pythagorean theorem therefore the answer
only depends on the quantity a so when a
is equal to 4 the answer again is 16 pi
but we've proven this generally for any
length so it always will be pi times a
squared there's a Miller special case
that allow you to solve this problem is
to take a limiting case we'll let the
inner circle radius be equal to 0 so if
we shrink the inner circle the tangent
chord will become the radius of the
outer circle to show you what I mean by
this
I created a demonstration on the website
Desmond
calm it's a graphing calculator and a
calculator and you could check it out I
provided a link in the video description
so I created a graphical version of this
problem I created some equations of
circles I shaded in the green ring and
we have a tangent chord whose dimension
I set to be equal to a equals four as
half of the tangent length the radius of
the inner circle I started out with the
value of 3
I then calculated the area in between
the two circles using calculus and using
the formula pi times a squared you'll
see they're equal to each other
now you can adjust these variables and
decimals so let's imagine shrinking the
inner circle radius well obviously the
outer circle radius will have to adjust
dynamically and you can see that it
keeps shrinking as well when the inner
circle radius goes all the way down to
zero we get that the outer circle radius
is equal to 4 and that's exactly equal
to the tangent chord length of a equals
4 so you can see that the tangent curve
becomes the radius of the outer circle
and so we can calculate the area you can
see that the area in these two formulas
doesn't change as you change the radius
of the inner circle it's only dependent
on that length a equals 4 so what this
means is we calculated that the area of
the annulus is equal to pi times a
squared which equals 16 pi and that's
approximately 50 point 265 as shown in
the decimals interactive now just to
follow up this decimals interactive you
can also play around with the length of
the tangent chord so you can see that if
the tangent chord increases you're
actually are going to change the area in
between the two circles and if the
tangent gourd decreases it's also going
to change it and you can see the two
methods of calculation give exactly the
same numerical answer now for any
particular value of the tangent chord
you're going to see that the area of the
green ring is unchanged it only depends
on the look that value of the parameter
a so it's an interesting interactive and
you can check it out and it'll give you
a deeper understanding for what's going
on
so now another way we can solve this
problem let's return to our diagram we
can use textbook geometry in the
intersecting chord theorem so let's
create some chords of the outer circle
we'll extend the horizontal line to be a
chord of the outer circle and we'll
extend the vertical line to be a chord
of the outer circle so we'll extend the
vertical line this will be a radius of
the outer circle and here will be the
difference between the radius of the
outer circle and the inner circle which
will be C minus B so now let me remove
some of the things that we don't need we
just have the outer circle and we have
two cores of this outer circle
intersecting the second segment of the
vertical chord is equal to C plus B so
the two chords of the outer circle
intersect dividing each chord into two
segments the product of the two segments
of one chord equals the product for the
other chord of their two segments so the
horizontal chord is divided into two
segments four and four and the vertical
chord is divided into two segments C
plus B and C minus B we multiply the
segments of each chord and set them
equal to each other this simplifies to
be 16 is equal to C squared minus B
squared that's the information we need
and we now return to our original
diagram we know the area of the Ring is
equal to the area the outer circle minus
the area of the inner circle and this
will be pi times the quantity C squared
minus B squared
well we calculated C squared minus B
squared is equal to 16 therefore we get
the area of the ring is equal to 16 pi
so this is just one more way that you
could solve this problem that doesn't
require the Pythagorean theorem and you
can actually just get this based on the
intersecting core theorem so now let me
show you one more way you could solve
this problem it's using a method known
as visual calculus or many cons theorem
in 1959 Caltech student Mimi Kahn NASA
kenyon devised a new approach to solve
the area of an annuals which led to a
new proof of the Pythagorean theorem
imagine rotating the triangle and
consider
the area the tangent line sweeps out in
particular look at the area that side a
sweeps out it exactly sweeps out the
area of the annulus now we can consider
a discrete version of this process
consider the area the tangent line
sweeps in 10 degree intervals these are
the shapes of the area swept out in
approximately 10 degrees and these are
just approximate shapes to give you an
idea of what's going on is a sweeps
around and rotates so one way we can
calculus area is we're going to group
all of these tangents sweeps and we're
going to rearrange them so they have a
common center point so we separate all
of these tangent sweeps and now we're
going to rearrange these so they're at a
common center point and we end up with a
new shape this has exactly the same area
as before but what is the shape
well it should be reminiscent of a
familiar geometrical shape this will be
something which has a length a radius of
a and it's going to be a circle with the
radius of a now technically the circle
is the limiting shape for the tangent
cluster when the tangents waves are
taking in infinitesimally small degree
intervals but even in these ten degree
intervals you could get an idea that
these tangent cluster would be a circle
with a radius exactly equal to the side
length a so the tangent sweep has the
same area as the tangent cluster because
all you're doing is rearranging the
changes sweeps into a new shape so you
could imagine a special case or instead
of sweeping out over the annulus you
actually have that length a sweeping
around a center point so what shape
would that make well that would make a
shape of the circle exactly therefore we
can calculate the areas of the tangent
sweep of a of the annulus instead of
trying to calculate that we could
calculate it in terms of this tangent
cluster well we know the area of a
circle is equal to PI times
we're therefore that's also the area of
the annulus this sort of thought process
can be generalized and formalized into
mannequin theorem the area of a tangent
sweep is equal to the area of this
tangent cluster regardless of the shape
of the original curve the tangent line
sweeps furthermore what we've just done
is we've come up with a new proof for
the Pythagorean theorem just imagine
that in 1959 someone comes up with a new
proof for a result that was known for
thousands of years so why does this
result in the Pythagorean theorem well
we calculated the area the annulus is
equal to pi times a squared but we also
know the area the annulus is a
difference in the areas of the circle
which will be pi times the quantity C
squared minus B squared so we can set
these two formulas for the area the
annual is equal to each other we then
cancel out the pi and rearrange to get
that C squared is exactly equals a
squared plus B squared so we have a new
proof of a thousands of year old theorem
so that's the answer this problem did
you figure it out and which way of
solving the problem did you enjoy most
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch her
on my blog mind your decisions which you
can follow on Facebook Google+ and
patreon you can catch her on social
media at pressure Locker and if you like
this video please check out my books
there are links in the video description